# Multifunctional Robotic Cat Capstone

This was a Fourth Year Capstone Design Project worked on by the following 4th year Electrical Engineering students: Aaron Antony, Vanessa Hoang and Jason Khuu. The major objectives of this project was to design a robotic cat that can walk, climb stairs, utilize machine vision, balance itself upon a fall, as well as perform other additional features specified by the designers. These features include but are not limited to, being able to control the cat through an app, utilizing machine vision to detect objects in addition to avoiding obstacles, having the cat perform some tricks, and even responding to voice commands. These functions were met by splitting the team into two, with one team focused on the physical hardware design of the cat which was crucial for all of the cat’s movement as well as balance, and the other team focused on the software aspect, which was able to use the hardware of the cat to meet the objectives and functionalities of the cat. The cat has to be physically designed to have legs strong enough to carry its weight up stairs, as well as balance itself, recover from falls, and have all the necessary sensors/mics on it all while looking aesthetically pleasing. Other functions being implemented include smell detection. The cat utilizes the Raspberry Pi microprocessor to process the data from the sensors as well as from the user inputs to then translate it to instructions for the Arduino Uno microcontroller to control the various servo motors on the cat to control its actions and perform tasks. Combining the hardware and software components a cat that can meet the objectives was realized.
